# cross-correlation
In signal processing, cross-correlation can be used to quantify the similarity between 2 series of data, as a function of the lag (often in time) between the two datasets. It can be used to quantify the lag time between two correlating time series of data, for example the time between when most people leave work and the time when the traffic on the road is worst! The correlation coefficient is often normalised to between -1 and 1, where identical series of data have a maximum correlation coefficient of 1 where the lag time is zero, and series that are identical but are opposite in polarity have a maximum correlation coefficient of -1.  In this respository, there are 2 scripts:

xcorr.py: Two synthetic waveforms are created, one with numerical noise and one without. The traces have the same dominant frequency, and are separated in time by a lag. In this script, both waveforms are plotted in one subplot. In a second subplot, the cross-correlation output is plotted as a function of the time lag, and the maximum cross-correlation coefficient is annotated on the plot alongside the lag between the two waveforms.

xcorr_many.py: Seismic data from a suite of earthquakes recorded at a volcano by a single seismometer over 15 hours. 20 seconds of seismic data is included in separate files for each earthquake. In this script, a cross-correlation matrix is created. The time of each event is plotted along both the x and y axis. The maximum correlation coefficient between any two events is plotted in colour. The waveform recorded by a seismometer for an earthquake is a function of source, path and instrument effects. Given that the same seismometer is used for all the events, instrument effects are assumed constant. Therefore, similar events must be triggered by a similar source in a similar location. Cross-correlation matrices can be used to infer that the source location is migrating through time, for example, if the correlation coefficient progressively decreases as a function of the time interval between earthquakes being cross-correlated. 

Please note that the data associated with these scripts is not uploaded to Github.
